---
id: 42445e22-65ce-4c8a-bb1d-fe790e6cf87c
blueprint: blog
title: 'Life is what you make it'
author: 7f2e6803-269b-43ed-84dc-a2063dcacdfb
updated_by: 7f2e6803-269b-43ed-84dc-a2063dcacdfb
updated_at: 1743107379
---
Life is what **you** make it. It took me a while to realize this, but after reading articles, seeing live examples and being forced to be myself, I think I finally get it. 

You **never ever** want life to happen to you, you want to happen to life. You want to be the one causing things to happen, it’s something that should bring you joy.  Something that makes you feel alive.

I asked myself randomly if I was a sponge , or if we are all sponges to some extent. The old saying “you are the average of the five people you spend the most time with” comes into play here. We absorb, or if we are high enough (on the ladder), disperse energy to those around us. 

Energy is the currency of life. Expand your energy, expand your wellbeing and for those around you.  

Have you ever spent time with someone/some people and come out feeling energetic or ready to do things, anything at all? Then you get it. The reverse sucks but is also true,

I think the reverse 🤢 is becoming the new norm, pushed by social media, which is choosing and identifying with the negative. Reject it with all your heart,

We all face challenges in life, mishaps, step downs, call it what you will, **#but** I pose a question to you — Does it break the laws of physics? 

No? Yes? Whatever?

Who knows the forces at play here, but who cares? Do the best you can and let the universe come to you. Namaste 🙏